You remember the coffee bean trail, Catherine?
How can I forget,
you spilled it all over me.
So we talked about how there will be three big parts to Lesson 1,
and we spoke about image and text view.
Then we learned how to style those views.
Yes.
Where are we going next?
Well I was thinking,
since we only have one view on the screen right now, it's a little boring.
So we should add more than one view.
Right, and if you think about it all of the fun apps that we use,
YouTube, OkCupid, what's another one that comes to mind?
Gmail.
Gmail. They all seem to have
more than one view is packed in very neatly on the screen together.
Yeah. The way they do that is through ViewGroups.
So we'll learn about that next.
That gives us the power to also position views on the screen where we want them.
So let's talk about ViewGroups next.
So far we've only had a single TextView or a single ImageView on screen.
If we want to add another view below it,
we could try to just copy this and paste it below it.
But then we get an error.
It says the XML document has more than one root view.
There can only be one root view and it should enclose all of your other views.
If we want both of these TextViews to appear on screen and not be lonely anymore,
then we need to put them in a ViewGroup.
The ViewGroup will then be the single root view for the layout.
ViewGroups are also views and they are rectangles on the screen.
For example, the red and orange rectangles here are all ViewGroups.
They can have a width, a height,
or a background color, or other attributes.
Background color here is orange,
but it could also be transparent.
So the ViewGroup isn't even visible to the user.
Instead of holding some content like text for a TextView or image for an ImageView,
the content that a ViewGroup holds is other views.
You can think of a ViewGroup as being a container for views.
One of view contains other views,
we call it the parent of these views.
So this is a parent.
This is the parent, and this is parent.
When a view is inside of a ViewGroup,
we call it the child of that ViewGroup.
So this is a child,
and this is a child, and this is a child.
Same here, there are two children here,
and two children here.
Continuing with the family language,
if there are multiple children,
then each of those children are siblings to each other.
So these are sibling views and these are sibling views. Okay, that was a lot.
To help you remember all the terminology around parent and child,
and view and ViewGroup,
I want you to meet a very nice family called the views.
You've already met Tommy TextView.
He's pretty great at displaying text.
You also know his sister Ivy ImageView,
who displayed very beautiful images.
Now, we're meeting their parents.
It's always nerve-wracking to meet the parents.
So we have Laura, the Linear Layout,
and Ray, the Relative Layout.
These are both ViewGroups,
which we mentioned before are called parent views.
Then the children views are positioned based on their parent.
Let's look at an example of one parent.
A parent may tell their child to sit or stand in a specific place and not to move.
Let's ignore the possibility that the child might want to
get up and run around because that's just an edge case.
On a device, this means that a parent has control over where to position its children.
For example, one child TextView can be at the top of the screen,
and then a second child ImageView can be below that,
or if the parent wishes they can rearrange the children in a different way.
The child ImageView can be on the left,
and then the child TextView can be on the right.
We're going to talk about ViewGroups in more detail in this lesson,
but to make sure that you've understood what we've covered so far,
please answer these questions.
For the screenshot on this device,
can you tell me how many views there are?
Number 2, for the mountain image,
is it a child or a parent of the red ViewGroup?
Number 3, is a red ViewGroup a child or a parent of the hiking TextView.
Number 4, which of these views are siblings of each other,
and you can just list them here.